# IntelliJ IDEA and MC Development

## IntelliJ IDEA

IntelliJ IDEA is an IDE created by JetBrains. 
IDE stands for Integrated Development Environment, and is software designed to make programming as easy as possible. 
Features that IDEs often have are ways to compile all the code with the press of a button and to help complete code with valid suggestions. They also include debugging features that make fixing issues in your code much easier.

IntelliJ IDEA can be downloaded for all major operating systems from [IntelliJ IDEA Download](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/) and has a free community version. The Ultimate version can be installed for free with a valid student account.

While other Java IDEs can be used to create Fabric Mods, IntelliJ IDEA is the best IDE for it, as it has the Minecraft Development Plugin, and the integration with Gradle, a Java build tool that Fabric uses, is better than other IDEs.

### Installing Java

If you have not installed Java onto your computer, or do not have Java 16 (needed for Minecraft 1.17+), you will need to install Java.
At the time of writing the [Java 16 Hotspot](https://adoptopenjdk.net/?variant=openjdk16&jvmVariant=hotspot) is the version that you should install. 

## Minecraft Development Plugin

The Minecraft Developement Plugin, also known as MCDev is a community made plugin for IntelliJ IDEA that provides many useful error checking features for many different modding platforms. 

To install the plugin, click on `File -> Settings` in IntelliJ IDEA. 
A box will open and there should be a `Plugins` option on the left to be selected, then make sure that `Marketplace` and not `Installed` is selected on the top. 
In the search bar, type `Minecraft` and MCDev should be the first plugin to show up. 
Click install next to the name. An IDE restart may be needed.

### Issues

MCDev is not perfect. It has to support a wide range of Minecraft versions and modding platforms, leading to some issues. While not super important for now, it will report an error if a custom `Entity` does not have a constructor that only takes in a `World` parameter. This can be ignored. 

In combination, do not use MCDev to create a project for you, as this often causes issues as the generated project is not configured correctly. When creating a new project, use the [Fabric Example Mod](https://github.com/fabricMC/fabric-example-mod). This will be explained in the next tutorial.
